README.md, before:

# Rack CORS Middleware [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/cyu/rack-cors.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/cyu/rack-cors)

`Rack::Cors` provides support for Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) for Rack compatible web applications.

The [CORS spec](http://www.w3.org/TR/cors/) allows web applications to make cross domain AJAX calls without using workarounds such as JSONP. See [Cross-domain Ajax with Cross-Origin Resource Sharing](http://www.nczonline.net/blog/2010/05/25/cross-domain-ajax-with-cross-origin-resource-sharing/)

## Installation

Install the gem:

`gem install rack-cors`

Or in your Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'rack-cors'
```


## Configuration

### Rails Configuration
For Rails, you'll need to add this middleware on application startup. A practical way to do this is with an initializer file. For example, the following will allow GET, POST, PATCH, or PUT requests from any origin on any resource:

```ruby
# config/initializers/cors.rb

Rails.application.config.middleware.insert_before 0, Rack::Cors do
  allow do
    origins '*'
    resource '*', headers: :any, methods: [:get, :post, :patch, :put]
  end
end
```

We use `insert_before` to make sure `Rack::Cors` runs at the beginning of the stack to make sure it isn't interfered with by other middleware (see `Rack::Cache` note in **Common Gotchas** section). Basic setup examples for Rails 5 & Rails 6 can be found in the examples/ directory.

See The [Rails Guide to Rack](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/rails_on_rack.html) for more details on rack middlewares or watch the [railscast](http://railscasts.com/episodes/151-rack-middleware).

*Note about Rails 6*: Rails 6 has support for blocking requests from unknown hosts, so origin domains will need to be added there as well.

```ruby
Rails.application.config.hosts << "product.com"
```

Read more about it here in the [Rails Guides](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/configuring.html#configuring-middleware)

### Rack Configuration

NOTE: If you're running Rails, adding `config/initializers/cors.rb` should be enough.  There is no need to update `config.ru` as well.

In `config.ru`, configure `Rack::Cors` by passing a block to the `use` command:

```ruby
use Rack::Cors do
  allow do
    origins 'localhost:3000', '127.0.0.1:3000',
            /\Ahttp:\/\/192\.168\.0\.\d{1,3}(:\d+)?\z/
            # regular expressions can be used here

    resource '/file/list_all/', :headers => 'x-domain-token'
    resource '/file/at/*',
        methods: [:get, :post, :delete, :put, :patch, :options, :head],
        headers: 'x-domain-token',
        expose: ['Some-Custom-Response-Header'],
        max_age: 600
        # headers to expose
  end

  allow do
    origins '*'
    resource '/public/*', headers: :any, methods: :get

    # Only allow a request for a specific host
    resource '/api/v1/*',
        headers: :any,
        methods: :get,
        if: proc { |env| env['HTTP_HOST'] == 'api.example.com' }
  end
end
```

### Configuration Reference

#### Middleware Options
* **debug** (boolean):  Enables debug logging and `X-Rack-CORS` HTTP headers for debugging.
* **logger** (Object or Proc): Specify the logger to log to.  If a proc is provided, it will be called when a logger is needed.  This is helpful in cases where the logger is initialized after `Rack::Cors` is initially configured, like `Rails.logger`.

#### Origin
Origins can be specified as a string, a regular expression, or as '\*' to allow all origins.

**\*SECURITY NOTE:** Be careful when using regular expressions to not accidentally be too inclusive.  For example, the expression `/https:\/\/example\.com/` will match the domain *example.com.randomdomainname.co.uk*.  It is recommended that any regular expression be enclosed with start & end string anchors, like `\Ahttps:\/\/example\.com\z`.

Additionally, origins can be specified dynamically via a block of the following form:
```ruby
  origins { |source, env| true || false }
```

A Resource path can be specified as exact string match (`/path/to/file.txt`) or with a '\*' wildcard (`/all/files/in/*`).  A resource can take the following options:

* **methods** (string or array or `:any`): The HTTP methods allowed for the resource.
* **headers** (string or array or `:any`): The HTTP headers that will be allowed in the CORS resource request.  Use `:any` to allow for any headers in the actual request.
* **expose** (string or array): The HTTP headers in the resource response can be exposed to the client.
* **credentials** (boolean, default: `false`): Sets the `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` response header. **Note:** If a wildcard (`*`) origin is specified, this option cannot be set to `true`.  Read this [security article](http://web-in-security.blogspot.de/2017/07/cors-misconfigurations-on-large-scale.html) for more information.
* **max_age** (number): Sets the `Access-Control-Max-Age` response header.
* **if** (Proc): If the result of the proc is true, will process the request as a valid CORS request.
* **vary** (string or array): A list of HTTP headers to add to the 'Vary' header.


## Common Gotchas

### Origin Matching

When specifying an origin, make sure that it does not have a trailing slash.

### Testing Postman and/or cURL

* Make sure you're passing in an `Origin:` header.  That header is required to trigger a CORS response.  Here's [a good SO post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12173990/how-can-you-debug-a-cors-request-with-curl) about using cURL for testing CORS.
* Make sure your origin does not have a trailing slash.

### Positioning in the Middleware Stack

Positioning of `Rack::Cors` in the middleware stack is very important. In the Rails example above we put it above all other middleware which, in our experience, provides the most consistent results.

Here are some scenarios where incorrect positioning have created issues:

* **Serving static files.**  Insert before `ActionDispatch::Static` so that static files are served with the proper CORS headers.  **NOTE:** this might not work in production as static files are usually served from the web server (Nginx, Apache) and not the Rails container.

* **Caching in the middleware.**  Insert before `Rack::Cache` so that the proper CORS headers are written and not cached ones.

* **Authentication via Warden**  Warden will return immediately if a resource that requires authentication is accessed without authentication.  If `Warden::Manager`is in the stack before `Rack::Cors`, it will return without the correct CORS headers being applied, resulting in a failed CORS request.

You can run the following command to see what the middleware stack looks like:

```bash
bundle exec rake middleware
```

Note that the middleware stack is different in production.  For example, the `ActionDispatch::Static` middleware will not be part of the stack if `config.serve_static_assets = false`.  You can run this to see what your middleware stack looks like in production:

```bash
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake middleware
```

### Serving static files

If you trying to serve CORS headers on static assets (like CSS, JS, Font files), keep in mind that static files are usually served directly from web servers and never runs through the Rails container (including the middleware stack where `Rack::Cors` resides).

In Heroku, you can serve static assets through the Rails container by setting `config.serve_static_assets = true` in `production.rb`.

Commit message:

Explain behavior with raised exceptions
When an exception gets raised Rack::Cors won't add headers anymore, which leads to the browser not even loading the response. This honors an explanation.

README.md, after:

# Rack CORS Middleware [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/cyu/rack-cors.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/cyu/rack-cors)

`Rack::Cors` provides support for Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) for Rack compatible web applications.

The [CORS spec](http://www.w3.org/TR/cors/) allows web applications to make cross domain AJAX calls without using workarounds such as JSONP. See [Cross-domain Ajax with Cross-Origin Resource Sharing](http://www.nczonline.net/blog/2010/05/25/cross-domain-ajax-with-cross-origin-resource-sharing/)

## Installation

Install the gem:

`gem install rack-cors`

Or in your Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'rack-cors'
```


## Configuration

### Rails Configuration
For Rails, you'll need to add this middleware on application startup. A practical way to do this is with an initializer file. For example, the following will allow GET, POST, PATCH, or PUT requests from any origin on any resource:

```ruby
# config/initializers/cors.rb

Rails.application.config.middleware.insert_before 0, Rack::Cors do
  allow do
    origins '*'
    resource '*', headers: :any, methods: [:get, :post, :patch, :put]
  end
end
```

We use `insert_before` to make sure `Rack::Cors` runs at the beginning of the stack to make sure it isn't interfered with by other middleware (see `Rack::Cache` note in **Common Gotchas** section). Basic setup examples for Rails 5 & Rails 6 can be found in the examples/ directory.

See The [Rails Guide to Rack](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/rails_on_rack.html) for more details on rack middlewares or watch the [railscast](http://railscasts.com/episodes/151-rack-middleware).

*Note about Rails 6*: Rails 6 has support for blocking requests from unknown hosts, so origin domains will need to be added there as well.

```ruby
Rails.application.config.hosts << "product.com"
```

Read more about it here in the [Rails Guides](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/configuring.html#configuring-middleware)

### Rack Configuration

NOTE: If you're running Rails, adding `config/initializers/cors.rb` should be enough.  There is no need to update `config.ru` as well.

In `config.ru`, configure `Rack::Cors` by passing a block to the `use` command:

```ruby
use Rack::Cors do
  allow do
    origins 'localhost:3000', '127.0.0.1:3000',
            /\Ahttp:\/\/192\.168\.0\.\d{1,3}(:\d+)?\z/
            # regular expressions can be used here

    resource '/file/list_all/', :headers => 'x-domain-token'
    resource '/file/at/*',
        methods: [:get, :post, :delete, :put, :patch, :options, :head],
        headers: 'x-domain-token',
        expose: ['Some-Custom-Response-Header'],
        max_age: 600
        # headers to expose
  end

  allow do
    origins '*'
    resource '/public/*', headers: :any, methods: :get

    # Only allow a request for a specific host
    resource '/api/v1/*',
        headers: :any,
        methods: :get,
        if: proc { |env| env['HTTP_HOST'] == 'api.example.com' }
  end
end
```

### Configuration Reference

#### Middleware Options
* **debug** (boolean):  Enables debug logging and `X-Rack-CORS` HTTP headers for debugging.
* **logger** (Object or Proc): Specify the logger to log to.  If a proc is provided, it will be called when a logger is needed.  This is helpful in cases where the logger is initialized after `Rack::Cors` is initially configured, like `Rails.logger`.

#### Origin
Origins can be specified as a string, a regular expression, or as '\*' to allow all origins.

**\*SECURITY NOTE:** Be careful when using regular expressions to not accidentally be too inclusive.  For example, the expression `/https:\/\/example\.com/` will match the domain *example.com.randomdomainname.co.uk*.  It is recommended that any regular expression be enclosed with start & end string anchors, like `\Ahttps:\/\/example\.com\z`.

Additionally, origins can be specified dynamically via a block of the following form:
```ruby
  origins { |source, env| true || false }
```

A Resource path can be specified as exact string match (`/path/to/file.txt`) or with a '\*' wildcard (`/all/files/in/*`).  A resource can take the following options:

* **methods** (string or array or `:any`): The HTTP methods allowed for the resource.
* **headers** (string or array or `:any`): The HTTP headers that will be allowed in the CORS resource request.  Use `:any` to allow for any headers in the actual request.
* **expose** (string or array): The HTTP headers in the resource response can be exposed to the client.
* **credentials** (boolean, default: `false`): Sets the `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` response header. **Note:** If a wildcard (`*`) origin is specified, this option cannot be set to `true`.  Read this [security article](http://web-in-security.blogspot.de/2017/07/cors-misconfigurations-on-large-scale.html) for more information.
* **max_age** (number): Sets the `Access-Control-Max-Age` response header.
* **if** (Proc): If the result of the proc is true, will process the request as a valid CORS request.
* **vary** (string or array): A list of HTTP headers to add to the 'Vary' header.


## Common Gotchas

### Origin Matching

When specifying an origin, make sure that it does not have a trailing slash.

### Raising from underlying middleware / application

Rack::Cors will not add `Origin` headers if an underlying middleware / application raises an exception. The exception will be permitted to propagate through the call stack, and the client which honors cross-origin policies will refuse to parse the response it receives. The client will report an error similar to `Access to ... has been blocked by CORS policy: No 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' header is present on the requested resource.`

A way to mitigate that issue is to use a generic error page middleware (or [Rack::ShowExceptions](https://www.rubydoc.info/gems/rack/Rack/ShowExceptions) but it is not safe to use in production). Once the exception gets suppressed `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` and other headers will be set correctly.

### Testing Postman and/or cURL

* Make sure you're passing in an `Origin:` header.  That header is required to trigger a CORS response.  Here's [a good SO post](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12173990/how-can-you-debug-a-cors-request-with-curl) about using cURL for testing CORS.
* Make sure your origin does not have a trailing slash.

### Positioning in the Middleware Stack

Positioning of `Rack::Cors` in the middleware stack is very important. In the Rails example above we put it above all other middleware which, in our experience, provides the most consistent results.

Here are some scenarios where incorrect positioning have created issues:

* **Serving static files.**  Insert before `ActionDispatch::Static` so that static files are served with the proper CORS headers.  **NOTE:** this might not work in production as static files are usually served from the web server (Nginx, Apache) and not the Rails container.

* **Caching in the middleware.**  Insert before `Rack::Cache` so that the proper CORS headers are written and not cached ones.

* **Authentication via Warden**  Warden will return immediately if a resource that requires authentication is accessed without authentication.  If `Warden::Manager`is in the stack before `Rack::Cors`, it will return without the correct CORS headers being applied, resulting in a failed CORS request.

You can run the following command to see what the middleware stack looks like:

```bash
bundle exec rake middleware
```

Note that the middleware stack is different in production.  For example, the `ActionDispatch::Static` middleware will not be part of the stack if `config.serve_static_assets = false`.  You can run this to see what your middleware stack looks like in production:

```bash
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake middleware
```

### Serving static files

If you trying to serve CORS headers on static assets (like CSS, JS, Font files), keep in mind that static files are usually served directly from web servers and never runs through the Rails container (including the middleware stack where `Rack::Cors` resides).

In Heroku, you can serve static assets through the Rails container by setting `config.serve_static_assets = true` in `production.rb`.
